USING GITHUB FOR WINDOWS

This is the only #$&^ing way I could get GitHub to work.  I understand that this is very rudimentary and it probably won’t suffice for the Coursera class too long, but maybe I’ll get through the class now. 

1. Create a repo on the web at GitHub and initialize w/ a Readme – either click on the ‘Create Repo’ link on the main landing page, or the main page when you click on your name

2. Name the repo; give it a description; leave it marked public; click on initialize w/ README; and click on ‘Create Repo’ – the big green button 

3. Don’t forget to click on ‘Commit new file’ at the bottom of the page!  

4. Open GitHub for Windows BY CLICKING ON THE ICON ON THE DESKTOP!!  Don’t open it from the Start menu. This assumes you already have GitHub for Windows on your computer.  If not, download and install it from here: 
https://help.github.com/articles/getting-started-with-github-for-windows/  
 
5. Click on the blue ‘+’ in the upper left corner of the local screen, then click on ‘Clone’;  that will bring up all the stuff on the remote server, including the new repo

6. click on the name of the new repo; ‘Clone <repo-name>' is activated at the bottom of the page; click on that

7. The program asks where you want the clone to be located;  navigate to a good place, click on the folder name, and click on OK; it starts cloning

8. To edit the readme file, double click on it in a Windows Explorer window; that will start the markdown editor.  Make your changes and save the file.  Close the editor. 

9. Going back to GitHub for Windows, now in the center there is a place for “uncommitted changes” with a down arrow saying “Show”.  Click that.  In the far right column, you should see your new addition to the readme file. 

10. You have to type a summary and/or description before you can commit the file.  Type something meaningful there, then click on “Commit to master” 

11. Now there are ‘unsynced changes’ that need to be synced before you can see it on the remote server.  click on SYNC in the upper right hand corner of GitHub for Windows

12. If not running, start internet browser and login to GitHub.  If it was running, you may need to refresh the page to see the changes.  

The changes should now be present on GitHub



1. To upload a FILE, go through the steps above to create the shell of a repo w/ README file

2. You need your file in the repo file.  I haven’t tried it, but it might be easiest to save your files in the local repo as they are created.  Then they should be synced when you go through the steps above.  

3. If the file is already in another folder, move or copy it into the local repo

4. Start GitHub for Windows, you may need to click on the repo name on the left side of the window.

5. Again, the middle column will have a comment of ‘Uncommitted changes’  ‘Show’.  Now when you click on the down arrow, the text of your file will show (assuming it’s an R script or text file

6. Type something in the summary and description in the middle column

7. Click on ‘Commit to master’

8. Now the middle column says ‘unsynced changes’.  Click on “SYNC” in the upper right corner to sync with the remote repo

If you add another file to the local repo before syncing, you will have both the ‘Uncommitted changes’ AND ‘Unsynced changes’ command/comment thingies in the middle column


12/17/2014

